do you want to build a powerful lead
generation website for your business
well i'm going to share the step-by-step
process that you can still we use here
at webchoice hey i'm sam dunning
co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com and
host the top 100 marketing podcast
business growth show if you haven't yet
check out my weekly email where i share
useful marketing tips
podcasts free guides resources and
bonuses each and every monday to start
your week off with a bang head over to
businessgrowth.email to sign up today so
why should you bother hiring a web
company to build a professional website
for you when it could cost you thousands
of pounds or dollars well perhaps you
shouldn't if you just need an online
business card that you might point
prospects to every now and then it
doesn't need to generate leads it
doesn't need to build trust educate
people and generate those important
inquiries then perhaps you shouldn't i
mean you could just look at a simple
site builder like squarespace wix or
something like that or even a very cheap
wordpress template and it might serve
you absolutely fine because the website
is nothing more than a static business
card however if you do need the website
to attract the right type of clients to
educate buyers to build trust with them
and to convert them into steady flow of
qualified sales opportunities then it
needs the correct investment of time and
money and it needs to be done right so
i'm going to share with you the
step-by-step process we use here at
webchoice that you can use yourself on
how we build websites that generate
results aka new clients sales leads and
revenue for your business so step one
is research now this starts with an obs
conversation between yourself and your
web company on what the exact goals are
for your website so this could cover
exactly who you want to attract so your
main target customer it could cover
exactly what you want to get out of the
website i.e does it need to attract a
certain type of audience does it need to
educate them on your sector does it need
to build trust through reviews
testimonials all that good stuff and
then convert them into a steady flow of
sales opportunities inbound leads calls
inquiries that kind of stuff really
understanding what you want to get out
of this website
looking at things like if you've got
past data so if you've had a website in
the past looking at things like the
google analytics so understanding how
much traffic the website was getting
what the conversion rate was of visitors
to inquiry what the bounce rate was so
how many people went on the home page
but never explored a page further and
just bounced off onto another site
also looking at tools perhaps like if
you've had hot jar on your old website
to understand average time spent on the
site if there are specific areas that
people clicked on if there was specific
areas of your site people neglected so
understanding what the user activity was
on your site taking all those insights
to understand areas that can improve
user retention and conversion rates to
get you more leads and also looking at
competitive sites so if there's
reference sites that you think are doing
a great job in your sector competitors
we need to be aware of so we can study
their sites understand what's working
well what's not and then analyzing all
this data to understand where you're at
right now where you want to get to in
say 12 months time with the site in
terms of traffic in terms of inquiries
in terms of inbound leads so
understanding and planning key goals and
also having a conversation around what
kind of marketing you're going to be
doing to the site if you're going to run
ads if you're going to do organic seo if
you're going to do social so
understanding together if the goals are
realistic and setting a clear road map
for what needs to happen with this new
design in bit another thing to add is we
want this website to attract idle
clients we don't want to design it or
build it just to please our ceo our
marketing team or even ourselves we want
to actually attract the type of people
that are going to be buying our product
or our service so a great way to do this
is to run customer interviews so if
you've got a list of existing clients or
prospects that you're already working
with that you enjoy working with and
that drive good revenue for your
business you can set up zoom calls worst
case email conversations with them and
you can really ask them key questions
like what encourages you to work with us
what do you like about our current
website what could we do to improve our
new website are there specific areas you
really care about seeing when you look
to work with a vendor like us on their
site is there perhaps other ideas and
additions you've got that we could do to
improve our online presence
was there anything that struck you when
we had a conversation with you that
really built trust and encourage you to
work with us as opposed to other vendors
now there is a whole bunch of cl
questions i share in another podcast
episode on business growth show in the
youtube called how to build your site to
attract idle clients so you can check
that past episode out which has got all
the full questions that i recommend you
ask on customer interviews but the key
thing to remember here is to
ask as many clients as you can ideally
kind of five to ten minimum and
understand what the key things that keep
coming up in terms of why they chose to
work with you improvements that you can
make on the site what they really care
about seeing on a vendor like yours
website what tends to build trust with
them what resonates with them and the
things that get said frequently make
sure you put them into play because you
know it's what your idle customers
actually care about seeing on a vendor
like yours website so step two is the
design stage so this is where we can put
all the insights that we've learned in
the initial research stage into practice
depending on the size of your company
and the size of your website perhaps if
it's 50 pages plus you may want to do a
wireframe first
this is essentially building out a
prototype of the website before you do
any visual design and it tends to map
out all the key elements of the pages
so you can be crystal clear on what the
format of the website is going to be
before you do any real design so for
example on a home page that might look
like you've got menu structure at the
top with your key pages maybe you've got
a hero area or banner area underneath
with your value proposition and some
call to actions in terms of sending
people to case studies or make an
inquiry and as you go down the homepage
you might have some social proof like
case studies main services offered
reviews testimonials as you scroll down
further you might have menu nav at the
bottom in the footer section and you
might have some social media links and
such that's a rough idea of a wireframe
for a home page so you'd wireframe you'd
map out all the key pages and once
they're signed off and approved then you
can move on to the actual visuals
so visual design we tend to use a tool
called invision which you recommend
reason being is you can send designs
and you can actually clients can comment
on the designs directly so if there's
feedback on certain areas they can just
click into the design on their pc and
they can give feedback straight away so
with any web design project nowadays we
recommend a mobile first design because
roughly 60 plus of searches are made
from a mobile device
the traditional older practice several
years ago was doing a responsive design
this simply means building a website
that adapts to the device it's being
opened on however this can give a poorer
experience especially for mobile and
tablet because your desktop device your
desktop website is just shrinking down
to the device whereas we recommend
taking a mobile first approach to design
specifically for mobile make sure it's a
beautiful easy to navigate great looking
site on mobile and likewise do the same
for tablet and pc so you give the best
possible experience you don't piss off
customers and they won't hop over to a
competitive site that gives them a
better experience
so we'll start off with the home page
design and that could be similar to what
i just laid out there maybe you've got
menu navigation maybe in your menu nav
you've got a sticky menu navigation that
sticks to the top of the page when you
scroll down on mobile or pc perhaps
we've got your main call to action in
that menu now so request a quote or book
your demo that stays in the top right
corner and a nice clear standout button
so people can easily click it maybe
we've got on mobile a click to call
option along with that get a demo call
to action so people can essentially get
in touch with you no matter what page
they're on no matter what section of
your site you're on they can easily
request to speak to sales
and then maybe we've got that hero area
with your value prop some call to
actions to view work or get in touch
leveraging social proof on the main
pages so buyer case studies perhaps
video reviews perhaps we're using
podcasts and testimonials and then as we
scroll down maybe some social links and
then doing the other pages so a lead gen
website page structure might be
something like home page
about
services which might be a drop down of
the main services you offer then maybe a
team page maybe a resources section with
a drop down for blog articles perhaps
videos and podcasts perhaps useful
resources where you can really educate
people that aren't perhaps familiar with
your sector
can help with seo because you're putting
up useful resources and content to
attract people that want to learn more
about your business and eventually
become customers and then maybe you've
got a contact page which might be where
the call to actions request a demo or
book an inquiry or get a free quote to
send people to so they can easily put in
their details and get in touch with you
that's a rough
idea of what the structure might be for
a legion site we recommend doing custom
bespoke designs for these kind of sites
so that way we can put together
something that's unique that really
leverages the insights that we've
learned in the research stage and
provide a tailored long-term solution
with the design and build step number
three is the development this is where
we bring all the visuals to life on your
website and there's two things here
there's front end development and
there's back end development so
front-end development is all your
visitors how they engage with your
website what they can click through
what's dynamic on your website so if
you've got moving banners if things move
and collapse as people scroll through
your pages if there's enquiry forms that
need to link up to crm systems all that
good stuff everything on the front end
that your visitors your prospects will
interact with and then back end
development so this is your admin side
this is your cms your content management
system where you can basically control
your website and you can do all the key
things like securely login to the admin
and then manage pages so edit all the
page content the text images the videos
add new pages so perhaps you've got
several different page template styles
that you can pick and choose from and
easily add new sections landing pages
service pages contact pages and all that
good stuff so this is really bringing
the website to life making sure it works
perfectly on mobile tablets and pcs
coding that all up coding up the user
experience and your admin experience
then setting up any integrations so
perhaps you want to integrate google
analytics perhaps you want to integrate
something like hot jar for
more visitor behavior setting up heat
maps running surveys maybe you need to
link up to your crm perhaps use
salesforce or hubspot so we can make
sure all the inquiries that come in feed
straight into your crm
maybe there's some several other
analytics or visual tools that we need
to consider in terms of integrations and
essentially making sure the website
provides a great functionality hits the
brief and also taking on board any seo
considerations that we need to think
about in terms of ranking organically on
google step number four is testing so
making sure everything works smoothly so
whenever building a new website if
you've got an existing site sitting
already we recommend leaving that as is
and building the new website on a test
server so for example with us that might
be webchoicetest.com
forward slash your company name so we
don't affect the live site that can stay
running smoothly and everything we do is
built on a staging test environment
until it's ready to rock and roll and go
live so some of the things we do when we
test sites is we test them out on all
the major browsers
devices and such so we've got a tool
called browser stack that allows us to
set up a range of test environments so
testing out all the major tablet devices
like ipads samsung galaxies etc testing
out all different screen sizes from
small laptop screens to large mac
screens and beyond testing out on
different mobile devices iphones
samsung's nokias you name it we'll test
it out on that and just making sure that
we fix any bugs any issues any alignment
issues and making sure our team are
really happy as well as the customers
with how the website responds to certain
devices making sure all the features
work well so if there's crm integrations
making sure they feed through making
sure analytics works smoothly testing
out one of the worst things you can do
is make a website live and then the
inquiry forms don't go through to the
right emails making sure all the forms
work they send through inquiries
properly if they need to email certain
members of the team they're all coming
in testing the phone numbers
testing each key element at the site and
also testing the page speed so it's
really important the website loads
lightning fast it's making sure that
experience is great on mobile tablet pc
making sure the website is close to one
second or under load speed which is
going to help your search engine ranking
it's going to give a good experience and
also help with your end conversion rates
testing all pieces of the puzzle from
website working on different devices to
page speed to inquiries coming through
and making sure everyone is happy with
the site step number five the final step
is launching
marketing and ongoing support so once
the website has been tested out any bugs
have been squashed and it's running
lightning fast and all inquiry forms are
linking and working smoothly it's time
to make it live so depending on how much
traffic your website gets you might want
to do this at a quiet time whether
that's on a weekend or a friday evening
think about when your website is going
to be quiet when you don't tend to get
inquiries so you can make that
transition of uploading the new site
onto the hosting server
and
ensuring that as least issues are
encountered as possible in terms of
affecting lead times and such as there
usually is a few hours in which the new
website needs to be transferred and
uploaded to the server so bear that in
mind and then once the website is
smoothly updated again test it out make
sure everything's working well all
integrations crm integration inquiry
forms phone numbers all that good stuff
are working well on the live site and
then a few things to think about are
ongoing support and maintenance so if
you're using a platform open source such
as wordpress you might want to set up a
monthly maintenance plan with your web
company so they can keep plugins updated
keep the version of wordpress updated
and keep the website ticking along
smoothly and maybe you need updates from
time to time that you can't manage
yourself on the admin so they can help
with that for you so you've got a
support plan
to give peace of mind and finally
marketing
so your website really can be your very
best or very worst salesperson something
i talk about a lot depending on if you
follow the steps we've just laid out
to really make sure the website is not
designed for your ego but to attract
build trust educate
qualify and convert ideal prospects
so
you need to bring it to market we need
to make sure the website is actually on
the channels that your idle clients hang
out on
so
chances are
most prospects go to google if they need
help with something if they've got quite
high intent to get something done
they're going to search on google so you
need to think about organic search and
getting your website a long-term
marketing strategy through seo search
and optimization you might want to look
into paid ads so a quick route to market
is google adwords
and making sure you show up top in the
paid listings maybe you want to look at
sponsored review sites or you can get in
front of your buyers there perhaps you
want to look at social if you're in the
b2b space that might be linkedin perhaps
looking at facebook ads to educate and
build trust over time so making sure
that you're really thinking about where
your buyers hang out
you're present on those marketing
channels you'll educate them you're
offering value and then you're offering
them a chance to convert so book that
inquiry or make a call or make a demo
his website is great but there's no
point in building an all-singing or
dancing one if you're not gonna market
it in front of your idle clients to
actually attract those buyers to
generate those leads and bring revenue
to your business and there you have it i
hope my step-by-step guide on how to
design and build a powerful website to
generate a steady flow of leads for your
business has been of use
as always if you did enjoy it a quick
rating on apple or spotify really helps
us a lot so be very very grateful if you
could or if you're on youtube a quick
subscribe again is very much appreciated
and with that i should catch you on the
next one cheers